# Fly Frog

This is Fly Frog, a game where a little frog named Hanez must catch as many flies as he can. I had a ton of fun making this game. I spent alot of time incorporating custom assets, such as the frog, the flies, background, the thorns and even the sound effects. I did not have anything to do with the music. I added minimal animations to the background, thorns, and flies. Besides the animation, the gameplay is essentially the same as pippin's Frogfrogfrog. The user can use the mouse to move Hanez left and right and they can shoot the tongue by pressing left click. I added supplementary elements, such as a combo meter, a hunger mechanic and a sort of health system that leads to the game over state.

Start Screen:
The game begins with a tutorial screen which teaches the player how the game works. The start screen has two 'buttons' on screen which the player can select by using Hanez's tongue. Play will start the game by using a variable that stores a string and a function that launches the play screen when the variable holds that specific string value. The select screen can be accessed in the same way. From the select screen, the play may choose his frog and tongue colors. The players current frog can be seen on the select screen. This is done by changing the value held by the objects for both the frog's body and the tongue's color. The only way back to the main screen from the select screen is with a back button. For this I incorporated a function called back(), which allows the state of the game to return to the start screen from any other point. When the player presses the back button, it brings the game back to the main screen. This happens thanks to the controlState() function which loads the game into the appropriate state, between start, select, play, and end. The controlState() function does all the work for switching between game states, which allows the game to flow properly and gameplay to occur.

Playing The Game:
For the flies I kept the base made by pippin, but I added the option for the flies to spawn on either side of the screen. This is done by randomizing a value and setting the speed to either negative or positive so that the fly moves in accordance to the side of the screen it spawns on. Besides that, I also randomized the movement of the fly by adding a speed parameter, and a sin parameter. These control the speed of the fly and the magnitude of the sin pattern respectively. This allows the flies to move in slightly randomized patterns making catching them more difficult and less systematic.

The main gameplay is simple, the player must control Hanez and shoot his tongue at the right time. If the tongue is shot too early or too late it will hit the back of the screen and hurt Hanez.I made this evident by adding thorns at the top of the screen which the player should ideally try to avoid. These thorns are the only way to get a game over. If Hanez takes too much damage, he falls in the water and the game ends. The player can than play again by pressing 'Spacebar' or they can return to the start screen with the same back() function as the select screen.

The game will keep track of both the score and the current combo (flies caught in a row). At certain values, the combo will make Hanez's tongue increase in size making it easier for the player to catch more flies. But, as soon as the player makes a mistake, the combo ends and the tongue size is reset.

When the player gets a game over, I added a sound effect that simulates the notion that Hanez fell in the water. I supported this with my favourite feature. I implemented a filter to the music during the game over state. In my mind, Hanez falls into the water when the game ends, and this filter masks the background music which makes it sound as though Hanez is underwater. This is done using the P5 sound librabry. I made a variable which allows me to add the filter to the soundtrack and then another one which allows me to remove it. I then simply made sure to add and remove the filter at the right time. 

Another feautre I added is the hunger mechanic. I simply set an integer value which constantly decrements over time. When Hanez eats a fly it increases his hunger bar slightly. When fully depleted, Hanez's tongue speed is decreased until he eats another frog and his hunger is not 0. To show the player their hunger I made a bar which represents the hunger value with a p5 element. Just as a nice touch I made sure the color of the hunger bar matched the color the player choses for Hanez.

The last major gameplay element is the marks that show up in the HUD. These are stored in a array and displayed only when Hanez's tongue touches the top of the screen (the thorns). These, alongside the variable which stores how many flies Hanez has missed is how the game reaches the game over state.

I ran into many problems and issues when developing this program. A major problem which came to light was how poolry the program ran due to how many imported elements were being rescaled. When I first imported the assets such as the background and Hanez, I did not ensure that they had the same dimension as the image that called them within my Javascript. Thus, the program ran very poorly when multiple assets were being updated and upsclaed/downscaled every frame the program ran. I only noticed this by working on this assignment on multiple machines. The program ran perfectly fine on my home computer, but when I tried running it on my laptop, I noticed serious performance issues. I was able to deduce that the issue was coming from the rescaling.
Another problem was the music. When I first added the music and sounds I did not consider the fact that putting the .play() from the P5 sound library would play every single frame. Playing the background music every single frame was terrible for performance and nearly made my computer crash on several occations. 

Also, I would be a fool to claim that this program is anywhere near optimal. Many features were added on a whim and spontaneously as I was working on this assignment. This lead to me having an absolute blast making the program as I allowed myself to add features, experimental additions and fun mechanics. Evidently, I could back and optimize this code, but for the purpose of this assignment, and considering the amount of time I spent working on this code (and playing the game) I am perfectly sastisfied with the results. Although, I would have loved to add the flies through an array to allow multiple flies to spawn at once. But I decided to prioritize other aspects of the game instead of that one.